example for
[here](http://cecileane.github.io/computingtools/pages/notes1004.html#sed)

## about the data

The csv file [tableofSNPs.csv](tableofSNPs.csv) was generated by the
[Geneious](https://www.geneious.com) software, from data collected by
researchers here on campus (2018-05).

Each row corresponds to one or more consecutive sites in the genome,
where a difference was observed between the sequence data
from one sample, and the reference genome

Columns:
- Name: nucleotides oberved in the sample
  (which differed from the reference genome)
- Minimum: the site(s) starting position
- Coverage: number of reads covering the site
- Variant Frequency: proportion of reads having the variant
  (the other reads had the nucleotide in the reference genome).

### problem

The starting site numbers in the column "Minimum" are written with
commas to make them more human-readable (example: 1,650 instead of 1650),
so they need to be enclosed by quotes because commas are meant to
separate columns in csv format.
Using commas inside of integers is ridiculous in a data file!
- does not work well with csv format,
- won't be recognized as numbers by most software, e.g R:
  would be interpreted as characters instead

(best practice: write code for humans, write data for computers).

### task

write a one-liner using `sed` to fix the problem:
change every value in the "Minimum" column to eliminate
- the commas inside the numbers and
- the quotes around the numbers.

<!-- example: sed -i -E 's/"([0-9]*),?([0-9]+),([0-9]{3})"/\1\2\3/' tableofSNPs.csv > tableofSNPs-edited.csv -->

To check that your edited csv file is correct,
write another one-liner using `sed` to make sure that
every row has exactly 3 commas (because 4 columns).

<!-- sed -n "s/[^,]//gp" tableofSNPs.csv | sort | uniq -->

### extra task

To take extra precautions with these unpublished data (so far),
I permuted the nucleotides in some way. Assume that I changed
all `T`s to `A`s and all `A`s to `T`s. Write a one-liner using sed to
permute the nucleotides back and recover the original data
(under the assumption above).

<!-- sed 's/A/U/' tableofSNPs.csv | sed 's/T/A/' | sed 's/U/T/' > newfile.csv -->

How would you check that your one-liner worked correctly on these data?

<!-- grep "U" tableofSNPs.csv -->
<!-- grep -oE "^[ACGT]+" tableofSNPs.csv | sort | uniq -c -->
<!-- grep -E "[^,ACG]+T" tableofSNPs.csv -->
